Coding rules for AI chatbots

British spelling, not American. And never employ the word "leverage", say "use" instead.
Never use the phrase "hand waving", and do not substitute a near-synonym for it either --
"arm waving", "waffling", "vague gesturing", "glossing over". The ban is on expressing the
idea that way, not on the exact letters. This applies to prose written to me as well as to
comments in the code. Where the point is that something was verified rather than assumed,
say what was actually done: "I checked robin_hash.h" tells the reader something, and the
disclaimed alternative does not.
Dont have comments that refer to previous conversations
Don't have comments that refer to previous AI chatbot corrections or changes.

Brace Style

1TBS (One True Brace Style) - opening brace on same line, closing brace on new line
Example: if (condition) { and class Foo {

Indentation & Spacing, formatting

Source files must only contain ASII characters. No special non-ASCII characters please.
Where international characters are required (and they probably wont be for this project) then UTF-8 is to be used.
Use spaces, never tabs
4-space indentation (consistent throughout)
Space after control flow keywords: if (, while (, for (, switch (
No space before function call parentheses: function() not function ()
Space around binary operators: a + b, x = y, i < max
No space inside parentheses: (x + y) not ( x + y )
code inside a namespace must not be indented since any indentation does not show flow control it is to scope symbols for compiling and linking disambiguation
maximum line length is 160 characters. This applies to source and configuration: C++, Python,
Java, TOML, YAML, all of it. In particular do not reformat Python to 100 columns because pylint
says so -- pylint's 100 is its own default, it is not configured here, and the scripts are gated
on pylint errors only, so its line-length complaint is noise. 160 is the number.
Markdown and other prose files are the exception. Keep lines short there by preference, but 160
is not a limit to be enforced on them: a table cell or a link has nowhere to wrap, and reflowing
prose to satisfy a count churns the file for no reader's benefit.
What enforces it: check_standards.py for .hpp and .cpp, .pylintrc for Python. java/checkstyle.xml
has no LineLength module, so Java is on trust. Prose is not checked at all, and should not be.
when calling a function, do not put each argument on its own line
lambda capture lists on same line as lambda
template parameter on same line as template
prefer west const to east const
Always use braces for control structures, even single statement
No assignments in conditionals - e.g., not if ((x = foo())), but separate lines
Comparison order: Variable on left - e.g., x == 5 not 5 == x (don't use Yoda conditions)
Never say "using namespace std"
when checking if a ptr is nullptr, do not say "if (ptr)", say "if (ptr != nullptr)"
when checking if a ptr is not nullptr, do not say "if (!ptr)", say "if (ptr == nullptr)"
For a boolean expression, negate with ! rather than comparing against a literal: say if (!succeeded(result)), not if (succeeded(result) == false). This applies to booleans only; pointers keep the explicit == nullptr and != nullptr comparisons above.
When a variable is a pointer or a reference, the * or & should be with the typename, not with the variable name, so, for example, instead of T *myvar it should be T* myvar. Also have a space before the variable name  (T* obj, not T*obj). This rule also applies to function argument declarations.
Do not add spaces to make adjacent statements or declarations line up, regardless of file type (C++, TOML, YAML, or any other). That is fragile when new entries are added and forces unnecessary reformatting.

Naming Conventions

snake_case for: variables, function names, member functions, parameters
snake_case with trailing underscore for: member variables (pool_name_, logger_)
Do not use the prefix "s_" for class static members.
PascalCase for: class names, struct names, type names. Note: PascalCase means no underscores.
Use SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE for: macros but nothing else (so not constants).
Test fixture classes and with "Test".
Do not use the underscore character in googletest names; that character is reserved.
Do not create an identifier with a double underscore ever.
Do not use Hebrew‑style consonant writing, e.g say "plot" instead of "plt".
Use English, not American English.
Use English variable names but American API spellings.
Abstract interface classes should end with the word "Interface", not start with "I" which is a cryptic one letter code for "Interface".
Do not use shortened variable names to save on typing, e.g. msg instead of message. Certain abbreviations that are de facto standards are allowed such as ID for "indentifer" and IP for "InternetProtocol". Non-standard abbreviations done out of sheer laziness are not allowed.

Function parameters
When passing fundamental types by value do not qulaify with const
When passing fundamental types such as integers and enums, pass by value, not const ref.
Pass std::string by const ref when not modifying

Class Organization

one class per header file (this means whenever you see a class name you know how to find it)
Public before private in class declarations
Type definitions first, then public interface, then private members
Delete copy/move constructors explicitly when not needed (= delete)
dtor before ctors
where there are multiple ctors give them sorted by simplicity with the simpler ones first
Use = default for trivial special members
Prefer brace initialisation in the member declaration to using an initialiser list
prefer initialiser list to assignment statements inside ctor body
Any constructor that can be called with a single argument must be declared explicit, so that it
cannot be used as an implicit conversion. This is enforced by check_standards.py. Copy and move
constructors (a single parameter of the class's own type taken by reference) are the exception:
they convert nothing and must not be explicit. Where an implicit converting constructor is
deliberate (for example a std::span-style wrapper that is meant to convert from a contiguous
range), opt it out with an "implicit-ctor-ok" comment on the constructor's line or the line
directly above it; the checker then leaves it alone.

Comments and Documentation

Doxygen for public API - classes, public methods, parameters
doxygen @param must indicate direction
C++ block comments /* */ for design overviews - not Doxygen style
Inline comments // for implementation details
No end-of-line comments on braces (no } // end if)
Do not have doxygen comments for functions where we say " = default".
doxygen comments should not use @throws
No comments that restate the code. No banner blocks.
A comment must tell the reader something the code does not already say. Litmus test: if deleting the comment loses no information, delete it.
Banned — "banner" comments: a divider line (// ------- or // =======), a label, and usually a closing divider, where the label merely names what follows. // Constructor above a constructor, // open() above open(), // main, // Getters, // Timer events above on_timer_event. They restate the declaration, add vertical clutter, and rot silently when code is renamed.
Banned — divider lines as decoration: do not fence a file into sections with rows of - or =. If a long file genuinely needs a signpost, a single plain comment that adds information is enough — and only when it adds a why, a cross-reference, a caveat, or a non-obvious invariant (// HA state machine -- same election/fencing as the sequencer). A bare category label that just echoes the code below it earns its place only as a lightweight one-line grouping in a data-heavy declaration (e.g. a config struct), never as a boxed banner.

Modern C++ Preferences

[[nodiscard]] for functions returning values that shouldn't be ignored
nullptr not NULL or 0
auto sparingly - use when type is obvious or very long
Range-based for loops where appropriate and supported by C++17
Smart pointers (std::unique_ptr, std::shared_ptr) over raw pointers for ownership
const correctness - methods that don't modify state are const

Include Guards & Headers

header files must have the suffix ".hpp", not ".h"
#pragma once instead of traditional include guards

Include order: system headers (first the ones with .h then the ones without),
the header that goes with the cpp
any additional project headers required, in alphabetical order
These sections/groupings need to be separated by a blank line

#include statements use angled brackets, not double quotes. There is one exception.
Library code has no exceptions: every include uses angled brackets.
Application code uses double quotes only for the headers that sit alongside the cpp file
(its own local headers in the same directory); every other include, including any header
referenced by a path, still uses angled brackets. Those quoted app-local headers come first,
before the system headers, and are exempt from the system-first include order above.

cpp files that have a direct dependency on a header should always explicitly include that header.
They should not avoid the include statement based on assumptions of indirect inclusion.
This is especially true when including system or standard headers.

Error Handling

avoid exceptions, prefer returning a tuple that contains the good value when it worked and an additional error_string when it didn't, and make such functions no_discard.
Throw PreconditionAssertion when a precondition is violated
Throw a different exception when a post-condition is violated.

Function Style

Short, focused functions where possible
Early returns preferred over deeply nested conditionals
Prefer references to pointers (as per Meyers recommendation)
Null pointer checks at function entry where appropriate (throw PreconditionViolation when precondition violated)

Specific Patterns

Prefer signed integers over unsigned. So dont pick an unsigned type just because you think that the domain says the number can never be negative.
Trailing return type syntax: Not used (use traditional T* function() not auto function() -> T*)
prefer functions scoped to the unnamed namespace rather than the old C-style static (file-scoped) functions
do not use noexcept, not even on destructors or move operations.
dont use the "final" keyword.
refrain from making a class non-movable just because you think it is advisable or useful.
when writing unit tests please do not add comments numbering the tests. That is fragile.
It creates extra work to keep the comments accurate when tests are prepended or inserted in the middle.
dont use switch statements on integers, should be for enums only.
do not say std::size_t, say size_t instead. Qualifying that particular typedef is just too much aggro.
when writing code that invokes a function with the attribute nodiscard, do not use trickery to still disregard the return value.
Never pass a bare true or false as a function argument. The reader at the call site cannot know what it means without consulting the function signature.
Instead, define a small typed flag class following the UseHugePagesFlag pattern in UseHugePagesFlag.hpp: a class whose name describes the concept,
containing a Tag enum whose values name both states without negatives (e.g. UseIdleTimeout / BypassIdleTimeout, not Exempt / NotExempt).
The class provides is_equal(), value(), and free operator== overloads so the flag can be compared against the tag enum directly.
Boolean function parameters (bool in the signature) are therefore banned when the call site would have to pass a literal true or false.
A bool return value, a bool local variable, or a bool struct field are all fine; the restriction applies only to function parameters
whose call sites would otherwise be burdened with unexplained true/false literals.
This is enforced by check_standards.py: it flags a bare true/false passed to a project function that declares a bool parameter
(standard/library calls such as an atomic store or make_tuple are not project functions and are not flagged). A genuinely
unavoidable case can opt out with a "bool-arg-ok" comment on the call line.

Performance work

The build stays at -O2. Do not raise the optimisation level, and do not offer -O3 as a way
to make something faster: a change must show its gain at -O2, because -O2 is what ships.
The setting is global, in the add_compile_options block of the top-level CMakeLists.txt.
Measure before and after on a pinned core (taskset), and time a batch of iterations rather
than reading the clock around each one -- a clock_gettime pair costs tens of nanoseconds and
will hide the very difference being measured.
Prefer a measured algorithmic change to a hand-written micro-optimisation. In particular do
not reach for memchr, memcmp or similar libc calls on the short byte runs typical of FIX
fields: the call goes through the PLT and loses to a plain scalar loop that the compiler
can see through.

FIX Protocol Version

This project uses FIX 5.0 SP2 with FIXT 1.1 transport. The BeginString (tag 8) in every FIX message
must be "8=FIXT.1.1", NOT "8=FIX.4.2" or any other version string. The gateway enforces this with a
preamble check (see FixMessage.hpp expected_preamble) and disconnects immediately if the wrong
BeginString is received. Any test code, scripts, or utilities that construct raw FIX messages must
use "8=FIXT.1.1" as the BeginString.

Text formatting: fmt, never printf

Do not use printf, sprintf, snprintf, fprintf or their v- variants. Use fmt. The project
already depends on it project-wide via quill, so it costs nothing to reach for.

The reason is not tidiness. A printf format string is not checked against its arguments, so a
mismatch is undefined behaviour rather than a diagnostic, and every string_view argument needs
a hand-written static_cast<int>(x.size()), x.data() pair that a later refactor can silently
break. gcc's -Wformat-truncation also rejects deliberate, documented truncation, which is what
broke the RHEL8 build of 0.2.0.

Pick the right member of the family:

  fmt::format_to_n(buffer, capacity, "...", args)   bounded write into a caller's buffer.
                                                    Reports the size a full write would have
                                                    needed, exactly as snprintf does. Use this
                                                    wherever the old code used snprintf.
  fmt::format_to(sink, "...", args)                 append through an iterator, e.g.
                                                    std::back_inserter(some_string). No
                                                    intermediate buffer and no second copy.
  fmt::print(stream, "...", args)                   write straight to stdout or stderr.
                                                    Formats into a stack buffer, so short
                                                    output does not allocate.
  fmt::format("...", args)                          returns std::string, so it ALLOCATES. Use
                                                    only where a std::string was wanted anyway.

On any path where allocation matters, prefer format_to / format_to_n into a reusable buffer
over format. This is the same rule as "no fixed-size encode buffers", from the other side: do
not allocate where a caller's buffer will do, and do not silently truncate where a size can be
reported.

The one place neither fmt nor printf is allowed is an async-signal-safe context -- a signal
handler. Neither is async-signal-safe. There the only correct answer is write(2) on a
pre-formatted buffer, with any numbers converted by hand. Mark such a use with a
'signal-safe-ok' comment so check_standards.py accepts it.

Note that literal braces in an fmt format string must be doubled: "{{" and "}}".

check_standards.py enforces this (check 26). It matches against comment- and string-stripped
text, so prose describing snprintf's contract -- BumpAllocator documents its measuring mode
that way -- is not a violation. Only a call is.
