At home I develop on linux mint 22.2 using gcc 13. I am using the C++17 dialect.
I know about C++20 and would like to use it, but I want some of my code to run in a
target production environment where the toolchain is sadly lacking. That environment is
RHEL8, using the ancient gcc 8.5 compiler. C++17 is the dialect in use and that is not
going to change. It is an electronic financial exchange where performance, robustness and
reliability are key. Therefore, the code I produce at home to run in that environment must
not only build and run with no code changes, I must be highly confident that it is correct
in every way. Comprehensive unit testing and performance testing is a must.
I will be using gtest, perf, callgrind and valgrind.

That environment uses a closed-source framework that I will refer to here simply as the
framework. It is undocumented and unsupported. It drives the event loop and multi-threaded
aspects of the system. The exchange software (where the source code and responsibility do
sit with the owning team) is built on that framework. It consists of multiple components.
One of them has been the subject of a performance study. The study reveals an area for
improvement to do with buffer pool allocation, as offered by the framework. Callgrind and
perf call graphs reveal that the framework has a dedicated worker thread for doling out
buffer pool buffers. It is thread-safe and it works, but I believe I can do better.
My project at home implements a pool allocator that could be offered to the owning team to
help with the framework performance issue that was found. The idea is that the component is
changed to use my allocator.

The target machines have at least 20 cores and 200GB of memory. There are also a limited
number of huge pages available, on a first-come-first-served basis. The framework's buffer
pool allocator always succeeds: when the pool is exhausted it silently reverts to using the
heap. Obviously, that is not good. My allocator will invoke a special callback when that
happens and will chain a fresh pool to the current one. Each pool has the same attributes.
Thus, when the pool size is accidentally configured to be too small, my applications will
get to hear about it and will still get the efficiencies of pool allocation, albeit with a
small initial hit to manage the chaining. That is acceptable, and certainly better than
silently reverting to the heap.

Before we get into any code I will have to send you the home project coding rules that I have.
